---
  title: When the API is unavailable
  date: 2022-02-08
  related:
    items:
    - text: Trello
      href: https://trello.com/c/upxDfxmq/103-api-down-design-for-find-my-trn
    - text: Prototype PR
      href: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/find-a-lost-trn-prototype/pull/24
  screenshots:
    items:
      - text: "Start"
        src: 01-start.png
      - text: "Confirmation"
        src: 02-confirmation.png
      - text: "Email"
        src: 03-email.png
---

This design began as a ‘straight to support’ MVP but was adapted to be a design that will accommodate when the API is unavaliable. Knowing the API isn’t too far away, it did not make sense to do a large redesign as a support only service.

When the service launches there will be no API. Once the API goes live the service will only fallback to this design if the API is down.

## Highlighting timescales

When the API is unavailable we need to:

- set expectations by indicating that requests will take longer
- give an indication of support timescales
- promote the phone line for urgent queries
- emphasise the benefit of giving all information up front

On the start page we:

- include a notification banner about the delays
- move the phone number above the Start now button

On the confirmation page we:

- talk about information being received
- reiterate timeframes and promote the phone number again
- playback the Zendesk support ticket if available (while also aware not to make it look like a TRN)

A user also receives an email restating these details. This replaces the ‘Your TRN’ email they would receive if there was a match.

## Technical expectations

Before the API is built we expect to:

- immediately create support tickets for requests
- playback the Zendesk support number straight away

When the API is built but unavailable we expect to:

- try to reach the API for a few minutes before we go to Zendesk
- create support tickets for requests if the API could not be reached (for example 5 to 10 minutes)
- attempt to match the given data as soon as the API is available again
- send any TRNs when we find a match
- close corresponding support tickets if there is a match

In both situations we will always ask the ITT provider question.

We will need to decide how the API unavailable state is enabled and disabled.

## Video walkthrough

{% from "embed/macro.njk" import appEmbed with context %}
{{ appEmbed({
  youtubeId: 'o1GnQ_IpDQ8',
  title: 'Video of journey when the API is unavailable'
}) }}
